# WRF-SUEWS

WRF-SUEWS coupling project

**Make sure to use the following commands after cloning the repo:**

``` bash
git submodule init
git submodule update
```
These commands update SUEWS repo associated with WRF-SUEWS. Currently, it is an older version of SUEWS than the most up-to-date one.

## Guide for Compilation and Simulation

### [JASMIN](https://www.ceda.ac.uk/services/jasmin/) (as of 04 May 2022)

Firstly make sure to use same compiler (preferably INTEL) for installing pre-requisite libraries and WRF model compilation.
To load intel compiler setting on JASMIN type `module load intel/20.0.0`

#### Dependencies
Please follow the official guide [here](https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/OnLineTutorial/compilation_tutorial.php) for other libraries requirement for the WRF compilation.

#### Setting WRF-SUEWS environment
Set the wrf-suews environment by typing `conda env create --file=wrf_suews.yml` and activate it by `conda activate wrf-suews` in the WRF-SUEWS directory.

#### Steps
1. Go to `coupling-automator` folder, and type `make`

2. It creates the `compilation-YYYYMMDD` folder to compile (name of the folder depends on what you specify [here](https://github.com/Urban-Meteorology-Reading/WRF-SUEWS/blob/50dba67f3a66cfee296d7c4de88d3f52353b13cd/coupling-automator/automate_main.py#L57))

3. In the created folder, type `./configure`
This is for configuration of WRF-SUEWS. Choose number `15` for the compiler (as of WRFv4 this refers to standard intel compiler) and `basic` option for the nesting.

4. Then you need compile the code: `./compile em_real >& log.compile`. For this, you can submit the [job file](./jasmin-config/sb-compile.sh) by `sbatch sb-compile.sh` in the compilation folder (specified by `path_working` in [automate_main.py](./coupling-automator/automate_main.py)).


5. After compilation of the code, you need to transfer all the `wrfinput_d0*` files generated with WSPS to the location of main run (usually `./test/em_real` OR `./run`) (rename the files to the original names by removing .suews from the filenames). Also include the boundary condition `wrfbdy_d01` file in the run directory.

6. You also need to copy `namelist.suews` to the same location.

7. Use `LANDUSE.TBL` in `./test/em_real` to change the albedo associated with Urban areas (number `13` for `MODIFIED_IGBP_MODIS_NOAH` for both winter and summer. By default it is 15% (0.15). In London case, it is changed to 11% (0.11) based on Ward et al. 2016)

8. `namelist.input` should also be modified to be consistent for WRF-SUEWS. See examples [here](https://github.com/Urban-Meteorology-Reading/WRF-SUEWS/tree/master/input-processor/namelist_example/UK) (specially the `sf_surface_physics = 9` which specifies to use SUEWS as the LSM).

9. The rest of steps, are similar to usual WRF runs (running WRF-SUEWS)


### Apple M1 chip (as of 17 Nov 2023)

#### Platform and Compiler

```
Darwin Kernel Version 23.1.0: Mon Oct  9 21:27:24 PDT 2023; root:xnu-10002.41.9~6/RELEASE_ARM64_T6000 arm64

GNU Fortran (Homebrew GCC 13.2.0) 13.2.0

```
#### Notes

Due to the newer version of GCC, the compilation of WRF-SUEWS is not straightforward.
The following steps are required to compile WRF-SUEWS on Apple M1 chip.

1. use homebrew to install gcc-13.2.0 and netcdf
```
brew install gcc@13.2.0 netcdf-c netcdf-fortran
```

2. change GCC to the homebrew version:
locate the gcc-13.2.0
```
which gcc-13
```

set symlink to the gcc-13.2.0
```
ln -s /opt/homebrew/bin/gcc-13 /usr/local/bin/gcc
```


3. set the environment variables for netcdf
```
export NETCDF=/opt/homebrew/
```
NB. this is set at the root of homebrew to avoid the error of "netcdf.inc" not found.

4. generate compilation working directory
```
cd coupling-automator
make
```
5. configure WRF-SUEWS settings
```
cd compilation-20211018 % this is the directory generated by make, the date part may be different
./configure
```
choose `15` for serial gcc/gfortran compiler

6. modify `configure.wrf` to use the correct compiler flags

note the following lines in `configure.wrf`
```bash
FCBASEOPTS      =       $(FCBASEOPTS_NO_G) $(FCDEBUG)

```

modify it by adding more flags
```bash
FCBASEOPTS      =       $(FCBASEOPTS_NO_G) $(FCDEBUG) -fallow-invalid-boz -fallow-argument-mismatch
```

7. compile WRF-SUEWS
```
./compile em_real >& log.compile
```


## Pre-processing using WPS

To generate the original `wrfinput` files (before processing them for WRF-SUEWS), you should follow [here](https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/OnLineTutorial/CASES/JAN00/index.php). After generating `wrfinput` and `wrfbdy`, you need to follow pre-processing instructions to modify the input file suitbale for WRF-SUEWS runs


## SUEWS specific pre-processing using WRF-SUEWS preprocessing system (WSPS)
Please refer to this [instruction](./WSPS/README.md) for WRF-SUEWS preprocessing system (WSPS).

